Apollo 12
Pete Conrad, Commander
Richard Gordon, Command Module Pilot
Alan Bean, Lunar Module Pilot
Ignition sequence start in
Six
Five
Four
Three
Two
One
Zero
All engines running
Commit lift-off
Pete Conrad reports the yaw program is in.
Tower clear
Apollo 12 was struck by lightning seconds after launch twice.
I don't know what happened here.
We had everything in the world drop out.
I got three fuel cell lights, an AC bus light, a fuel cell disconnect
AC bus overload 1 and 2, main bus A and B out
Luckily, Flight controller John Aaron had seen the same unusual readings in a flight simulation.
The fix was resetting an obscure system called Signal Conditioning Equipment (SCE).
Apollo 12, Houston, try SCE to Auxiliary, over
NCE to Auxiliary?
What the hell's that?
S-C-E, S-C-E to Auxiliary
Apollo 12, Houston,  try to reset your fuel
cells now
Okay. I have a good GDC, and Al has got the fuel cells back on, and we'll be working on our AC buses.
Automatic guidance brought Apollo 12 to their target on the Ocean of Storms.
Conrad and Bean made a precision landing just 535 feet from the Surveyor 3 spacecraft.
There it is! Son of a gun- straight down the middle of the road! I can't believe it!
Amazing! Fantastic!
Man, that may have been a small one for Neil, but that's a long one for me
Pete Conrad &  Alan Bean did two moonwalks in two days
They collected lunar samples ...
retrieved parts of Surveyor 3 to study the long-term effects of exposure ...
and deployed the first Apollo Lunar Surface Experiments Package (ALSEP) to study ...
moonquakes
ions
magnetic fields
solar wind
and lunar dust
The ascent module was jettisoned to impact the moon.
countdown LM impact in 3 2 1 ... mark
NASA observed seismic activity on the Moon for the first time.
To the surprise of seismologists, some signals lasted an hour.
Hello Houston, Apollo 12 en route home
We're getting a spectacular view of the eclipse.
Splashdown November 24, 1969
Designed for a life of one year, ALSEP continued to send data back for 8 years.
The lunar samples are still studied today.